RT.Debug.enable('paginate')     // one line per element with its reason
RT.Debug.enable('paginate_v')   // per-child measurement inside a split

Pass 0 — survey, no changes. I read the manuscript and report: what tags it uses, where it diverges from current conventions, what's broken, how big it is, what it needs that the engine doesn't have yet. You get an inventory before committing to anything.

Pass 1 — mechanical conformance. RT code format, tag spellings, heading capitalization, the may/just rule. Mostly scriptable, entirely verifiable, no judgement about content.

Pass 2 — structure. Sections, counters, TOC, and whatever the book needs that we haven't built — figures and theorem numbering being the obvious candidates for a computation theory text. This is where the engine likely grows.

Pass 3 — render and fix. The real test bed. Expect layout faults we haven't seen, since a book exercises depths and lengths the manuals don't.

Pass 4 — copy editing, a chapter at a time. Slowest, most judgement-dependent, and best done once everything else is stable.


---

No update tool

-> we will manually update too complex for a script

README.md is stale — it advertises <RT-article>, <RT-title>, <RT-constraint> in hyphen form. RT-constraint doesn't exist in the engine under either spelling.

-> remind me later we will get back to this.


<RT·book> is documented but unimplemented. The user manual lists it as a manuscript type alongside article and memo; nothing in the engine references it. For a 4-volume work this is probably the single most consequential gap.

-> ignore

User manual omissions: RT·term-em and RT·neologism-em (both live in term.js, and the book uses term-em 5 times), RT·noop, RT·e, RT·label, RT·tuple/RT·tuple-meta, RT·vector/RT·vector-meta, and the splitable attribute.

-> I am surprised they are not in there, apparently they got dropped, remind me later we will get back to this.

to_pdf.py is dead against current documents — it regex-rewrites <RT-term-em>, <RT-term>, etc. in hyphen form, which matches nothing in a v4/v5 file. to_pdf2.py has the same problem on 8 lines. Two PDF tools with unclear precedence is worth resolving.

-> it has been removed from the project.


RT-code-format.html has a broken tag: RT·code>snake_case is missing its opening <. Renders as literal text.

term.js violates its own migration note. The design manual's migration notes say to drop dual-spelling selectors in favor of the canonical form; term.js uses the all-lowercase form exclusively ('rt·term, rt·term-em, …'), as does footnote.js. Worth a consistency sweep.

todo.txt triage. Still open and relevant to the book: paginate's ad-hoc page numbering vs. the counters; unifying footnote/endnote under Note with path keys; the Count/Note capitalization and space-vs-dot key path convention; justified text inserting spaces into inline RT blocks; table types. The theme-name/manifest mismatch item at the top appears already fixed — all three themes' meta.name match their manifest keys and filenames. Close it.

footnote.js is a validation stub (processing lives in the paginator). Fine, but the user manual presents it as a peer of endnote.

Q
The title. The file is TM-2026.html, titled "Computational Naturalism", and there's a chapter called "Or, does it go the other way? Computational Naturalism". You described this as volume 1 of Tom's Turing Complete Computer Architecture. Is "Computational Naturalism" the volume-1 title, a working title, or a leftover from a reorganization?

RT·chapter — implement or convert? Given <RT·book> is also unimplemented and you have three more volumes coming, I'd lean toward building RT·book and RT·chapter properly in the engine rather than flattening chapters into depth-0 sections. That's more work now and much less later. But it's your call, and the section route gets a readable book faster.

Lists and blockquotes. 29 raw ones in the book. Add RT elements, or accept raw HTML as legitimate for these?

Order of operations. Do you want me to start with the engine gaps (so the migration has a target), or with a mechanical first pass on the book (theme-selector, copyright, the comment, the <pre> blocks) to get it rendering before we touch structure?
